title=My goals for 2019: back to work
date=2019-03-20
type=post
tags=
status=published
---------

Ok, I'm writing my goals for 2019 in the end of March. What's wrong with me?.
Well, somehow it makes sense in my head. For several reasons I wasn't sure
about my goals this year, the situation wasn't stable enough to do that
reasoning but let's start with the beginning.

I don't usually review the previous year goals but I have to. 2018 has been one
of the most complicated years of my life. I have to write a post about being
father explaining how difficult is children concurrency and how important is to
do your homework before. In my case, two relocations, rebuild an old house and
move to remote work again. Right now, I define my wife and myself as survivors
:-)

In that context, I started the year exhausted, worried and focused in
recovering which involved a lot of things and some changes. My only goal was
recover my life. Luckily I'm a lot better now.

In the professional area, I'm not sure yet what's my goal for 2019. Now I'm
quite focused in my role as Technical Director in Optare. It's a great role
which allows me to help others and do many different things: management but
also some development and system administration. It has a positive impact in
the company and it suits quite well with my actual life.

But there are challenges too. I never expect to stay in that role more than one
year so sometimes I act as it was something temporary. I shouldn't. Also I miss
a lot spend more time coding **without interruptions** and the thousand of
context changes I usually have. Being a remote worker doesn't help. Finally,
I have been working for the same company more than 10 years. Even if I don't
think there is any better place to work and I had multiple roles in multiple
clients, it feels weird sometimes and somehow I have to deal with that.

So my professional goal for 2019 is to continue positive and be more and more
productive.

Regarding the tech community. I co-founded the VigoJUG in 2017 with important
contributions to VigoTech in the same year. 2018 was for Coru単aJUG and our
first Java conference: XantarJ.

For 2019 I had the idea of promote Coru単aTech but it has been a failure until
now. In this point I don't think A Coru単a is ready for a community like that.
We need more local tech groups and more people involved. There is no a clear
organizer or leader of VigoTech, it's a really distributed community effort. I
really think it's the only way.

So my "community" goal will be the Coru単aJUG and the VigoJUG again. But
I really like the JUGs how they are. I don't care about how many members or how
many people came to the events. I only care about if there are good places to
share knowledge and have fun and I think they are. So what to do?. Probably the
only answer I have is to find more speakers (local and international) which
means more fun and more knowledge.

Regarding conferences, last year I attended JCrete. I didn't have the
opportunity to profit the conference as much as I would like because some sad
events. But I love the format and the original idea. I really would like to
build something similar here but not so Java related, more community focused.

I also attended as speaker JBCNConf which motivated me to co-launch the first
XantarJ. It was a great initiative, we have to repeat it this year!

In 2019, I will continue attending conferences when possible but I'm going to
focus in non-profit events where they don't charge the attendants and travel
expenses are covered. It seems fair to me.

Regarding my personal life, I stopped drinking any coffee or alcohol last year
but I wasn't able to back to sport. It's a pending point.

My family and kids will continue being the most important thing.
