title=My goals for 2020: survive and build
date=2020-03-09
type=post
tags=
status=published
---------

Last year I didn't write about one of my goals: to find a new job. I didn't
want to make it public and it took more than I was expecting.

This year is very different. I made a big change in my career: from a role more
oriented to manage and spread good development/deployment practices I have moved
to a Data Engineering role. The reason to do that it was to avoid overlapping
with other persons in my organization so nowadays I spent my time working with
several cool technologies as Kafka or Spark. I'm having fun and I don't miss too
much Jenkins, Kubernetes or API Gateways. In the end, that's what I like: learn
new things more than work in specific areas for years.

So my role for this year is clear: I just want to contribute as much as possible
and wait for an opportunity to build great things. In some point in the future
I would like to build again something as the NetApps team: a highly skilled team
able to do whatever it's necessary and have fun at the same time. That's a
complex goal which requires several factors, I don't think 2020 is going to be
the year for that. It's time to be patient and build the bases for the future.

Regarding the community, I'm very happy with the CoruñaJUG. We are building a
solid community and we can say it's quite stable now. The main goal for the JUG
now is to have better defined "core members" which, at some point, could
continue with the JUG if we would like to step down as organizers. It's really
hard to achieve that but that's the goal. I would like also to have smaller
meetups (the current situation is a bit too much) and more local developers as
speakers, especially from unrepresented minorities.

VigoJUG status is different. I can't travel to Vigo each month and find
speakers is quite complicated. We are trying to do a meetup every two months so
the JUG can survive in low-maintenance mode. It's fine for now, the situation
could improve in the future if some volunteer appears.

No news from VigoTech, the community seems a bit blocked now and I can't help
from Coruña. I almost abandoned the idea of CoruñaTech, we need a more diverse
group in Coruña to have something like that. Luckily, new groups and individuals
are starting and I'm quite positive.

I also abandoned the idea of XantarJ, there are too many conferences and I don't
feel motivated enough to work so much. Organize a conference is a big effort and
I'm the type of person who wants to do it great or not do it at all. I'm not
sure about "La Atlántica". It was a great experience last year but I don't feel
comfortable collaborating with conferences which aren't 100% technical. I don't
have anything against entrepreneurship, privacy, agile or recruiting but they
are just not what motivates me.

I plan to attend some conferences this year as speaker or attendee: GReach, J on
the Beach, Kafka Summit, JNation, JBCNConf, Lambda World, Spark Summit, etc. I'm
not sure if I'm going to attend all of them, it's a bit too much but I will try
to attend as many as possible. It's always great to meet those communities!

In a more personal sense, last year I started to participate in a French reading
club. I did a great effort to learn French and I don't want to lose it. It has
been a great activity! As another goal for 2020, I will try to read all the club
books (one per month), plus twelve technical books (six about programming, six
about data engineering) and another six in Galician (another reading club I
found in Goodreads). Read is one of the things I'm enjoying more nowadays.

In contrast, I'm doing a lot less sport. My goal is to visit the gym two days
per week. I never liked the gym but there are some interesting activities and
it's only 45 minutes at the lunchtime. Once I have more time, I will try to
increase the number of days. By now, I'm just in surviving-mode.

I'm very happy with how things are going with my kids. We find a suitable way so
my goal is to continue with them in the same way.

I know some personal challenges will come in the middle of the summer including
resume the rebuilding of our future house... so I don't have more goals for
2020. This year goal is to survive, build the basis and wait for better times to
start new projects.
